<h1 align="center"> Wearable Assistive device for the Blind </h1>
 <p> Visually impaired individuals face a significant challenge in accessing reading resources independently, especially when visiting places such as stores, restaurants, and hospitals, where they often rely on the assistance of others. Various technologies have been developed over time to solve this problem, initially focused on generating text equivalents in Braille. However, these
early implementations had practical limitations, such as being time-consuming, bulky, and expensive. As a result, alternative technologies have emerged that aim to provide various forms of feedback for printed text. 
 </p> 
 <p>Efforts have been made to create audio versions of books based on the Braille system. However, using cassettes or tapes presented problems in terms of proper placement and the
ability to navigate to specific areas of text. To improve the reading experience, the Digital Accessible Information System (Daisy) standard was introduced, which combined text and audio components in accessible books, offering a more interactive reading experience.
</p>
<p> The first assistive devices for the blind explored the conversion of visual signals into non- verbal acoustic or tactile output. For example, the Optophone used musical chords or motifs, while the Optacon relied on vibrotactile signals. However, these devices had limitations, such as the need to move the hands or not being able to freely use both hands when reading. </p>
<p> The advent of optical character recognition (OCR) technology has brought a new wave of innovation. OCR enables the extraction of text from images, which enables mobile apps for reading aids such as KNFB Reader and Blindsights Text Detective. These applications use OCR and speech synthesis to capture and read text from images. However, they require proper alignment, lighting and focus to achieve optimal results. Additionally, they often read blocks of
  text as a whole without providing relevant information to the user </p>
  <p>
The existing literature highlights the need for a computationally inexpensive algorithm to address the challenges faced by visually impaired individuals in accessing reading resources. Current systems often rely on software technologies with complex hardware setups, leading to cost and portability issues. In response to these challenges, this paper aims to present a simple algorithm that offers satisfactory results using cost-effective methodologies</p>
<p> Overall, the development of assistive technologies for visually impaired individuals has evolved from generating Braille equivalents to exploring alternative feedback systems such as audio, acoustic or tactile outputs. The introduction of OCR and advances in computing further expanded the possibilities. However, there remains a need for more accessible and affordable solutions that can effectively address the challenges visually impaired individuals face in
accessing reading resources independently.</p>
